It was 8pm and the subway cart was half full. The after work rush was over and the car held a mix of tired looking professionals who had worked late and people travelling to the various bars out of the city. The tone was therefore mixed, and general disapproval of the second group could be seen in the faces of the first. The train stopped at Covent Garden and a rugged looking artist got on and sat next to a man in a suit even though there were seats available at least a space away from any other passenger.

“You’re wearing our shoes,” the man in the suit says after a while.
“Pardon?” replies the artist.
“Those shoes you’re wearing. We ran a campaign for them.”
“A campaign?”
“An advertising campaign, and it seems to have worked. You bought them.”
“These?” the artist points at his shoes. “I got these from a charity shop.”
The advertising man doesn’t believe him.
“Still, that doesn’t mean it didn’t work. You bought them for a reason.”
“Well, maybe. I don’t know why I do the things I do, but I bought these ones because they were £5.“
“£5?” The advertising man says incredulously. “They must have oversold them in that case. Marketing outdoing the product.”
There was a brief silence.
“You’re in advertising then?” Says the artist.
“Yeah, and you must be in fashion? Trying to break into the industry? Are you a secretary?”
“I’m a visual artist,” replied the artist, in good humour, but hiding a touch of resentment.
“Tough job, that can’t pay too well.”
“I’ve got quite a few commissions actually, I just got one recently for a grand from a visitor of one of my exhibitions.”
“Wow, how long will that take you to fulfil?”
“About a month. But I enjoy it.”
“A month? You can’t live on a grand a month in London,” says the advertising man.
“Well I also supplement it with work at an arts college.”
“Ah,” says the advertising man.

There is another pause. The artist is getting visibly more frustrated. A man opposite them picks up a heavy plastic bag as the train stops and the bottom breaks, causing oranges to roll over the cart.

“Isn’t advertising a bit soul crushing?” the artist asks while picking up one of the oranges and handing it to the man.
“Not at all. All work is the same, you’ll find that if you become successful. Advertising is just as creative as sculpture, but the canvas is people’s minds. Dan Wieden is Picasso, just the medium isn’t appreciated.”
The artist scoffed at this. “I don’t think manipulating people to buy things they don’t need should be considered art.”
“Why not? Yes I know art is supposed to be useless, Oscar Wilde and all that, but in the modern age of propaganda films and commercial artworks it doesn’t make sense.”
The artist felt this comment had been framed in a way where his perspective wouldn’t make sense.
“No, I don’t believe that. Picasso’s paintings were about death. Art wants to show us the truth about our place in life, advertising wants to blind us to it.”
“Look, there’s no universal truth here. Maybe people in Picasso’s day believed in it, but we now know that truth is just your perspective. If you want to find meaning by looking at paintings about death then by all means go ahead, but some people just want to buy a new iPhone and be happy, and that’s their prerogative.”

The artist knew he was being dragged further into an argument on the advertiser’s terms but he was getting more frustrated and couldn’t help himself.
“Do you really believe that? That no one thing carries more meaning than another? Doesn’t that drive you crazy?”
“Not at all. Look, I’m resigned to it. No one thing is more valuable than another, at least unless you’re helping others, but neither of us are doing that. To think your work is more important than a labourer is pretentious. If you want to make art in this world, why not become a graphic designer for a company like mine? We’re accepting applications on Tuesday.” At this point he hands the artist a thick white business card that the artist immediately stuffs in his scruffy coat pocket without looking.
This was a good offer, but the situation made accepting it impossible.
“I don’t want to sell my perspective out to manipulate people, just so I can live in a fancier house and go to pretentious restaurants with my soulless advertising friends.”
“You do no such thing. There’s nothing wrong with doing well for yourself.”
There is a pause.
The advertising man rejoins “your generation are so individualistic. You think self-expression is the most important thing and you let your whole life go to waste in search of it. When I was young I was an artist, and it doesn’t get you anywhere. Maybe the top one percent. We’re running a campaign soon — I can’t say for who — where they want their customers to feel like buying their product will make them part of a fictional ‘creative class’. I can’t imagine the effect that has on kids. Each will be chasing their own dreams and will feel like a failure when it amounts to nothing.”
The artist looks at the advert directly opposite them. “We take care of your properties, so you don’t have to.” A man reclines on a deck chair on a beach. Next to him stands a table on which there is a coconut with a straw in it.

The next station is — South Kensington.
The advertising man stands up and says “well, this is me.”
The man with the oranges also rises to leave. He cradles the bottom of his broken bag, trying to keep the oranges contained.
“Let me help you with that,” says the artist, reaching into his backpack and removing a meal deal from a plastic Tesco bag he has inside. He frantically puts the man’s oranges in the new plastic bag while the train jolts to a standstill.
“Thank you,” the man says, stunned.
The advertising man is standing by the doors. He adjusts the tie on his suit. He stands up tall and straight and smiles to himself.
Mind the gap.
He takes a long stride out of the carriage, vaulting over the small and level space between the train and platform.