I woke up next to a tub of mayonnaise on a mattress on the floor. The mayonnaise was incongruous with the rest of the setting. It wasn't a nice mattress, but the carpeted floor and colorful curtains made me think that the location was a childhood bedroom of some variety. Whose childhood bedroom I wasn't sure. The mayonnaise was heavily branded, and bore a sky blue strip around the middle with a stock photo of three eggs next to a cartoon of the sun shining with equispaced rays. The overly nature-focused branding was at odds with the unnatural affect the poor quality photoshopping, and juxtaposition of photographic and cartoon elements give it. I'd never seen this brand before.

As I rose to leave the room, and to find out where I was, I noticed that the mayonnaise was located directly in the path between myself and the door. The tub was large enough to fit one's entire head into. It was clean on the outside, but with a slight discoloration around the lid that suggested it had been left open at some point. As I was about to make my way toward the exit, I imagined stepping into the tub by accident, my foot breaking the lid, pushing through the viscous substance until came to rest at the bottom, totally submerged and surrounded; my foot violating the integrity of the food as the food violated that of my foot. The pale morning light made clear the slight discoloration of the tub, inky browns and flecks of black that stood clearly apart from the cream-stained sides of the interior. The mayonnaise inside had an uneven surface, with some stuck to the sides. The unevenness and bubbles at the surface of the main body of fluid suggested that the mayonnaise had been used recently.

I made to leave and stopped, my limbs freezing as my body tried to intuit the way to move to get around the mayonnaise. I made a slight movement in one direction and then stopped, as if realizing that approaching from this angle was wrong. Then I tried another direction and the same thing happened. Then another. I stood on my tip-toes, off balance, feeling the burn in my upper thighs as my body struggled to find the right approach to maneuver around the tub. I thought to myself for a moment and then, giving it a wide berth as though it were a snake, an icon in the center of a ritual circle, I circumvented the mayonnaise and slipped out the door.